hey you guys so insidious is probably
also one of your all-time favorite
horror movies and I think it should be I
mean it had the right jump scares a
great story and one of the most
memorable and recognizable movie horror
villains of all time so let's take a
closer look at him so today we'll look
at the main villain of not just the
first insidious movie but from the
entire series and that is of course the
unforgettable Darth Maul imposter the
red face demon but what is he what does
he want and how can you defeat him well
look at all those things today but
before we get into all that let's
quickly look at the first insidious
movie storyline so that we're all on the
same page insidious is about the Lambert
family the parents renamed Josh have
three kids one of which is named Dalton
he's the main character and has the
ability of astral projection which is
basically having out-of-body experiences
however when he's in the state of astral
projection he tends to travel to a
mysterious place called the further
where many demons and evil entities with
bad intentions roam around one day
Dalton has an accident and his house
where he falls hits his head and goes
into a comatose like state which he just
won't come out of no matter what the
family tries and the doctors have no
solutions either even after months tall
nose seemingly stuck in his coma and
can't seem to wake out throughout the
movie we learned that the reason he
can't wake up is because he's trapped in
the further where he has been taken
captive by the red-faced demon the
reasons for which aren't really made
clear until the end the evil entity is
referred to as many different things in
the insidious movie series such as
lipstick face demon red face demon and
six deaths that's how you pronounce it
sixth ass but we'll just call him the
demon for now he is easily recognizable
by his dark body and face which are
completely black with his face having
bright red sections all around this
hungry demon is the ruler of the further
which is as Elyse explains this dark
purgatory in-between earth heaven and
hell and it's filled with a lot of
tormented souls that died on earth and
certain people have the gift of being
able to visit this place while being in
a relaxed or hypnotized state but when
you are finished roaming the further you
must return to your body's physical
location in real life to exit the
further and it's here that the demon has
Dalton trapped so that he can use them
to achieve his final objective which is
the same for all of the inhabitants of
the further the goal of lipstick faces
to invade people's body
making the hosts so in this case Dalton
a lifeless vessel that his honor is
complete control and that's essentially
the end goal of this demon he follows
the steps to invade Dalton's body in
order to control him so that he can use
his supernatural demonic powers to wreak
havoc and cause much pain in the real
world through Dalton's real-life body
but there is a catch this process that
he has to follow to possess Dalton takes
really long and it takes a lot of effort
which is why Dalton doesn't just become
instantly possessed like in any other
possession movie this is reinforcement
Josh Dalton's father sees some of his
childhood pictures where a demon comes
closer one step at a time from pictures
that are presumably taken days if not
weeks apart and I think it's this break
in the pattern from so many other horror
films that makes this movie so great so
throughout the entire time of his coma
Dalton's body's being slowly invaded by
six deaths yes even after more than a
month and the more time the demon has
the more control he has over his
physical body so even though the exact
process of possessing children isn't
exactly described I believe that for the
demon to possess someone fully it is
implied that he has to use a
supernatural strength to mentally and
physically tortured victims and it's
only after the painful torture that the
final step of possession can take place
so the demons powers build up the
possession and the demon targets
children like Dalton for multiple
reasons the biggest one of course is
that he can astral project as we already
discussed that means that while Dalton
is asleep he enters the further which is
ruled by this demon Dalton's essentially
on the demon's turf where he has no
access to him without even knowing the
incredibly evil intentions that he has
and this is what happens when he first
falls into his coma after the accident
he enters the further and the demon
takes advantage of Dalton's childlike
innocence to lure em closer to him and
it's after that he lures his targets in
that he no longer lets them leave
essentially kidnapping them and putting
them in Chains and keeping them in his
creepy lair with the kids tied up and
unable to escape he has all the time in
the world to just invade their body
because no one can interfere because not
everybody can just enter the further and
save them so how does one exactly beat
the demon well well the red faced demon
is actually the only villain that isn't
the
it in the movies he's only ever escaped
from but never actually killed so maybe
we'll officially get to see him beat in
a new entry to the series but for now
let's discuss how the characters in the
movie can overcome him so in the film
it's actually a pretty straightforward
Dalton was kidnapped by the red demon
and is trapped in his lair which sits
behind the mysterious red door
so for Dalton to free himself over the
demon much like if this would have
happened in real life he has to escape
the kidnappers home and flee once he's
out of the demons home he then has to
find his way back to his own body
without being caught by any of the evil
spirits the red demon or his friend with
a job back here it's sort of like a very
high-stakes version of playing tag with
a home base and looking for Dalton most
of the dead spirits are about as slow as
a bunch of four-year-olds and this is
exactly what happens in the movie
Dalton's father rediscovers his ability
of astral projection and comes into the
further beats up the guy with gel in his
hair
freeze Dalton from the chains and they
both essentially run away from the red
face demon returning to their own bodies
and waking up so he can't kill him at
least not yet
all we can do now is one so that's all I
got for this video guys the evil demon
kidnaps kids in the further torches them
while they're there that way he can
eventually possess their bodies back in
the real world and cause a lot of damage
with his powers anyways insidious is
really one of my if not my favorite
horror movie of all time it was also one
of the first horror movies I watched if
you have any questions or objections you
can comment down below and if you want
to see more videos like this make sure
to subscribe or leave a like or do both
if you feel especially generous and I
hope I see you guys in the next video
and thank you for watching
[Music]
you